Classes
class is a price list for purchasing / improving Attributes and Skills, and you can change classes any time after levelling in one

spend xp to purchase “upgrades”:
can roll on table for random class trait (only way to get these) or spend 2x as much to select one
or spend on skills

10 levels, emphasis on discovery and options rather than development and bonuses

attribute and/or race requirement(s)
starting skills if initial class


Disciple
"devoted to the cause"
must be Lawful
reqt: WIS 12
damage and HD: d6
any armor, shields, light weapons
starting skills: perception and any one

Body Mastery
monk stuff

Communion
prayer (eg turn undead or heal wound)--choose at time of casting appropriate to deity, subject to approval
borrows other schools of magic
pray, meditate
powers from higher being

Life
school of magic
heal, cure, exorcise?, turn undead?, resurrect, reanimate

Nature
school of magic
includes shapeshift

Psionics
school of magic



Opportunist
"pragmatism"
reqt: INT 12 or DEX 12 or CHA 12
no Lawful
damage and HD: d6
light armor, no shields, any weapons
starting skills: any three

Assassination
including poisons

Explosives

Gadgetry

Impersonation
disguise, forge, mimic

Performance
entertain, persuade, inspire, taunt

Sleight of Hand



Sorcerer
"hunger for power"
must be Chaotic
reqt: INT 12, acolyte / scholar
damage and HD: d4
no armor, no shields, light weapons
starting skills: one of arcana, lore and any one

Conjuration
school of magic

Elementalism
school of magic

Enchantment
school of magic
imbue items with magical properties
includes alchemy; bonus to create or identify, opportunity for extra potency, recipe discovery

Illusion
school of magic

Summoning
school of magic

MUs now have spell points (SP, mana, juju maybe).  Their total spell points are level + INT (languages) mod.  They may prepare any combination of spells known (and allowed by level per RAW) up to the their total spell points.

Spells cost their level in points to cast.  But they do NOT necessarily disappear from memory.  To determine if a MU remembers a spell after casting it, roll a d6.  If the number rolled EXCEEDS (not ties) the level of the spell cast, it is not forgotten (but the spell points are still spent).

I propose that Elves do NOT get this bonus--it's the differential a MU gains with his extra spellbook time while the Elf is sharpening his blade.

Examples:

1st level MU with INT 13 has 2 spell points.  He can only cast a maximum of 2 (prepared) spells per day, but has a 5 in 6 chance of remembering one if he casts it.

4th level MU with INT 16 has 6 spell points.  Has access to 1st and 2nd level spells, with a good chance of remembering what he casts.

Etc.  Immediate thoughts: high level magic can't be remembered (you could maybe add an INT factor to that).  MUs lucky enough to find a magic missile spell now have a pretty good means of attacking.




Warrior
"might makes right and practice makes perfect"
reqt: STR 12
damage and HD: d8
no Alignment restriction
any armor, shields, weapons
starting skills: two of athletics, melee, missile weapons

Features
hale: from now one (including this level), HD is d12
brutal: damage die = d12
armor expertise: reduce readiness (move / enc?) penalty
catch your breath: during combat, cast (can be interrupted) and gain 1d8 HP
cleave: with a 2h weapon, any killing blow allows extra attack
shield bash: with a shield, normal attack for d4 damage and 1-round stun
weaponmaster: with two weapons equipped, attack and damage with advantage
self-sacrifice: add your level in damage to a successful hit; attempt must be declared before attacking; hit or miss, suffer 1/2 * level HP damage (but you cannot die from this)

Battle Mastery
shout, stun, stomp, cleave
Battle Mastery: A Fighter begins combat with d6 + level points.  These points may be added to ANY allied roll during combat (including by the Fighter himself).  The Fighter may never add more than his level to any roll.

Great Weapons
cleave

Mounted Combat

Shields
