unopposed check is just success roll (usually d20) under ability score
unopposed checks have passive difficulty: since point is under ability score, d20 tasks are hardest

combat mechanic (opposed check):
  no initiative, no damage dice
  movement is unopposed, DEX (or possibly STR) ability check only... resolution is by distance travelled, 10' per pt or successful roll, whichever is lower
  opposed movement is same ability check but with possible failure and partial success like damage
    how to score opposition to escape?  should be roughly DEX+STR-20
  attack roll based on weapon size, effort, magic strength, etc
    unarmed d4
    dagger d6
    arrow/bolt d8
    axe/mace/sword d12
    2h weapon d20

    no upper bound, but success bounded by ability--you can roll too high
    except magic, which always does its damage, but the margin of oversuccess you take as penalty
  natural armor or worn armor as base armor
    or magic resistance by type (which can be negative, eg metal armor and electricity)
  add shield, dex, etc
  if attack is <= armor it does no damage
  if > armor and <= armor + shield/dex:
    if dex, dodged
    if shield, blocked
  once, shield can be used to negate any physical blow, destroying it
  armor can also take HP loss but loses armor per point of physical damage
    clothing 1
    leather 3
    chain 5
    plate 7
    shield 2
  evaluate in ascending order of attack roll
    lowest successes go first, meaning low defense dies first
    big damage pools like AoE spells go last



Reactions: 2d6 vs Morale; roll over +STR to intimidate, roll under -CHA to appease

Tommy: NPCs have Willingness and Patience; PCs must raise Willingness to TN before Patience runs out
so roll 2d6 iteratively?

  
Palladium / Fiend Folio flavor
Races: my 6
Attributes: standard 6
Backgrounds: as part of race package
Skills: useful for dungeons (TB?), ranks = number of d20s you roll for associated ability check, improve with use
  Opportunist gets lots of points to invest, like 2e thief
Professions: invest XP into Blacksmith, Merchant, etc. (start with 1 of these from background?)
Classes: mine + Palladium magic Classes, use 2e kits where possible
Alignment: BX

Equipment: 2e

Holy Magic: cleric prays on the spot for anything he knows, WIS check is to make sure God is pleased (why?  consequences? sounds like bs)
Wizardry: memorize daily from book, INT check, schools invested in like skill trees, open up new spells (some do level-based damage etc)
# casts per day by level
start with 2e lists

Initiative: DM fiat per DW
HP: CON + class HD
SP: WIS + class SD
AC: 1/3/5/7
To Hit Melee: roll under STR and above AC
To Hit Ranged: roll under DEX and above AC
Damage: by class HD

Experience: treasure, table per class (1e?)

Encumbrance: Hold / Wear / Carry per TB (actual layout)

Turns per skill test / combat / etc, with TB's Grind and conditions
  wandering monster checks
  light sources
  magical effects etc
  
Camp phase like TB with character development focus

Monsters: FF / 2e, with lots of flavor and special attacks
Treasure: 2e?

Flavorful magic

base test: roll under ability, 1/20/tied are fumble/critical/partial success (do and receive damage, set up better for next round, etc.)


Strength
describes everything about the character’s ability to create, withstand, and use physical force.  It is used when a character tries to physically harm someone or something at close range, when lifting or holding up something heavy, etc.  A high Strength 
Dexterity
is the ability of a character to run, dodge, avoid, and manipulate things.  It’s useful for everything from melee combat to dancing at the Royal Ball.  Skilled characters with high Dexterity can perform amazing feats of agility and quickness.
Constitution
describes how difficult it is to wound a character as well as resistance to poison and disease; it also factors into physical endurance and fatigue.
Intellect
is a description of the depth of a character’s knowledge, memory, and general intellectual ability.  Mind is used to “know” and remember things, learn languages and skills, etc.  A high Intellect is required to learn and use magic.
Perception
measures a character’s ability to synthesize information, as well as describes general “situational awareness”, including the ability to detect intentions and motives.
Discipline
describes ability to perservere mentally (such as avoiding spell interruption, meditating, or improving a skill)
Empathy
ability to understand others in terms of desires, motivations, intent, etc.
Charisma
is a character’s ability to persuade or intimidate and generally describes social skill.  It is also 
Ego
“social constitution”--how confident a character is (sometimes tested as morale)


When a PC tries to intimidate, throw 2d6 + STR modifier.  If the result exceeds the monster's Morale, it is fearful / obedient / etc.

When a PC tries to appease, throw 2d6 - CHA modifier.  If the result is less than the monster's Morale, it is peaceful / cooperative / etc.